The Joe Rogan experience.
We still never got to the bagoacgida sorry about that. We turned a hard, a hard,
I wanna know why you think that that's real and what you think is going on in
those stories.
Well, first you've got the dialogue itself,
which is cool wisdom
for all.
People. Yeah. And some of it is like hyper bizarre.
Like what Oppenheimer quoted at the detonation of the atomic bomb. Right.
I am become death. Worldmi looks.
Shy. Creep Preo. Is that the that's a sansrit how does he say it?
Carlosmi looks SHA is that time?
I am the destroy of time.
I am the great destroyer and I've come to destroy all worlds. So that's,
one's the actual translation. That's the actual translation in English. Cause.
His translation, um, Oppenheimers was, I am become deaf.
Is that because of a, an issue with, uh,
the translation between in Hindu and yeah, there's a.
English. It's just different people translated slightly different, but it's,
it's similar. Meaning, meaning, um,
in that particular section that you pulled out that was Christian explaining,
like God is beautiful. God is charming. God is your best friend.
He's also death personified. So he's sang in that part particular place.
I'm actually also the destroy of all the worlds. When we think of
the yogis, explain that God is everything,
both the beauty and the destruction as well. And so Christian just is,
is sharing his attributes.
And in that particular chapter chapter allow he's his,
the muscle almost intimidating. Where do you think.
All these stories come from? Where do you,
what do you think the origin of the Baba GDA of the maabarat of,
of all the ancient text? What do you think the origin was? What was the,
what was the motivation to put this stuff down? What was,
what was the original concepts that led them to write
this? And where did it all come from? Mm, there has to be an origin of these,
these wisdoms, right? Yeah. What do you think that is?
You know, um, to even to answer the question,
I have to take myself out of Ragu and just answer like a yoga teacher. Okay.
Cause the,
to answer of what do you think it's one thing you're sort of trained not to do
in as far as what is your personal opinion?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I can give you my personal opinion,
but I have to separate it from what the stories themselves.
Say. Okay. Well, gimme your personal opinion. My personal opinion.
Is, um, I hear what the stories have to offer.
I find some value in the stories and I try to apply wisdom to my life.
It helps the direction of my life. It helps me escape potholes.
I understand the stories themselves say these are all real.
They're be beyond way beyond your perception.
They were orally transmitted at a certain time.
Historically they understood people are getting dumber.
See, we have a tendency to think we're at the pinnacle of evolution,
but the Vadic teachings is at, as we go on in this age,
we get more and more disconnected.
There was a time where architecture was more evolved where the sciences were
more evolved where.
Wait a minute, stop. <laugh> the sciences were more evolved.
The sciences, like, like for example, the building of these vionas,
which when we read them, now we just think that's mythological.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> even weaponry, um, uh, weaponry.
They say they were done with sound.
If you study that there's one book called the Donner, but okay.
But do you think this is.
Real? Do I think it's real? I think it could be. I don't think it's definitely.
I definitely.
Don't. So you, at one point in time,
human beings had Vonas and they flew around the sky and then they had weapons
that used sound could.
Could, why not.
Was no evidence rcular logical evidence that there was a flying craft or was
that there was ever any technology that allowed people to leave gravity.
<Laugh> yeah. There's sometimes there may not be evidence.
Just like there's let me, let me show you, what was the guy's name hill or the,
the bar Barney hill. Barney hill. What's your evidence? You could just say,
well, it's my own experience. Well, I mean, he's.
Just laying that's, that's a totally different thing.
He he's just relaying his personal experience.
He could have had some sort of a psychotic break he could have had, I mean,
it could have been mass psychosis with him and his, I mean,
with two people up psychosis with him and his wife, I can say.
That there are things that make no sense. I,
to me yet, I sort of tried them anyway.
And then after time they made sense like, oh wait a second.
That does make sense. It it, or at different vantage points of my life,
it didn't make sense when I was 20, but at 50, that makes a lot of sense. Mm.
So there's certain things that are
huge leaps of faith that I can't say. I definitely know that to be true.
Just like chanting on mantratrous made no sense made no real sense.
But over time I realized actually that helps in this particular way, but it.
Achieve as a state, a state of consciousness. We've known that forever,
that achieving that meditation in general, right?
Achieve certain states of consciousness. And you can actually, with FMRI,
you can actually monitor the changes in the way the rain, uh, is.
See, this is what I like about you.
You're one of those guys you get into these very interesting,
like subtle sciences and you,
then you find it's like hard evidence for these things.
And just hearing that thing with James Wil and breaking all these things down.
I'm I'm, <laugh>, I'm more of a simpler guy.
I find people where I trust the way they live,
they've applied stuff and walked the it's more like I can tell time,
but I don't know how to take part a clock and put it back.
Togetherhmm no, I think exactly the same way. I'm fascinated by watches. Yeah.
But then you see all the gears behind a watch, like a self-winding watch.
And you're like, I don't know what the is happening here. I'm sure I can.
I can find it out. Eventually. I'm like.
That with a lot of things.
And I'm always impressed when you dig into it with people like this.
But truthfully, if you wanna know the honest, honest truth, I was like, oh man,
I hope Joe doesn't dig into it with me because I'm not that kind of hard science
guy. You don't have people don't have to, even all the stuff,
stuff I did in yoga. I'm concerned.
From, with you as a human being. Mm-hmm <affirmative> what,
that's why I asked you very specifically. What do you.
Think? Right. Well, I can say like,
the stuff that you liked about me fighting was endurance flexibility.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I give all the credit that to yoga.
You did at the time front of.
I've told many people that you, you had crazy cardio and your cardio was,
you never did. Cardio. You just did breathing.
Exercise. Never did cardio just sat down.
You was great. Cardio. You always, you always led like really good endurance.
And my cardio was even better.
I remember being at the bomb squad once on day 17 of a 21 day fast.
Wow. Day 17. And I remember fighting, I can't remember his name as a cool guy.
He's like, what?
And you know how ju jut jujitsu class ends when we're all tanked and we're all
like, mm-hmm <affirmative> and I just kept on going. And he's like, man,
what is up with you? I was like, I don't know.
I haven't eaten solid food in 17 days. So it's not like I'm a genius.
It's just that these are sort of like yoga, fasting, deep breathing.
I've just been doing them. Yeah.
And I'm sure there's people that can give you the,
a modern take on what the benefits are and yeah, but that's.
Not what I'm asking you.
What I'm asking you is why you believe the BOGO vagi is real cause. Sure.
So my point is there's reasonable amounts of faith in these other things that
I've applied. Mm-hmm <affirmative> that have made me take a next step.
So whether I believe it's real,
I just believe the truths I can extract from it are real. Yes.
Whether the war actually happened, there's a leap of faith.
The benefits of those, of, of,
of following those scriptures you apply and you, you feel those benefits.
So that's enough.
That's enough to make me move forward towards those. Yeah. Just for example,
the idea of faith and cuz especially in America,
we don't like the concept of blind faith.
But if I saw you walking in downtown or let's take it the other way
you saw me,
you're driving you're Porsche and you saw me walking in Manhattan and you say,
Hey brago how do you get to times square? And I said,
so the first step I could lie to you.
People lie all the time when you ask them for directions,
but you have some reasonable faith. I know him, he's a friend.
Why would he gimme bad directions? So there's a reasonable amount of faith,
but even still people get into their egos and they just want to be
the knower of directions. But I say,
you go up the 14th street and you're gonna see a McDonald.
You take a right then you're gonna go down all the way to
whatever. I can't even remember Manhattan anymore,
union square and take a left and go up third. And then at, at union square area,
you're gonna see a park at that park. You take a hard left. So again,
you have a, some type of extended faith towards me, not blind faith,
but you'd go up to 14th street and there's at McDonald's as you go to McDonald's
or that next signpost you realize, okay, maybe he does know where he is going.
Then you go farther there's union square. Okay.
I think he actually knows what what's going on.
And all of a sudden you see a times square in the distance.
So faith isn't just like, I believe. And if anyone was to say, I believe this,
I believe in these Vanas I believe in mantras, I I'd start to question them,
but it happens with small degrees of,
of things being just sh shown to you. You want to take all right,
what's the next step here? What do they say about this?
What do they say about that? And then you apply and see, well,
does that work with me? And like I said, sometimes things didn't make sense.
I remember when I first met monks and they said, uh,
uh, question about, or, or not even monks,
but people were just like following very strict with their sexuality. Even in,
even in family. And the guy said I don't have sex.
I don't thought I was 17. I was like, you don't have sex with your wife.
Are you crazy? He's like, no, I do other, we do other things.
And I just couldn't understand that as a 17 year old boy or 18 year old boy,
I couldn't understand. Why would you be with a person? Well,
what was not for that answer? What were their answer?
It was cuz they said we we're practicing detachment. We're practicing,
going internal to find or pleasure. And he said, I said, what do you do for fun?
And he goes, you go for a drive. I go, I was like, you go for a drive.
Are you crazy? But it,
it was where this person was one on his path of,
of really controlling the senses and finding his pleasure internally
at different, at time in my life. It made no sense whatsoever. Maybe he really.
Didn't like having sex with or looking for some sort of an excuse or maybe
there was going internal. She's like what? What's happening?
Maybe there is trauma. We don't know the whole story.
Anyway, I see what you're saying though that, but if applying this stuff,
whether or not you break it down scientifically and objectively and try
to analyze each and every word and whatever the translation is,
you could actually apply those truths air quotes to your life and have real
benefits. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Um, yeah. And,
and other things are just, I don't,
does it make a difference if viona's exist or not? No.
It makes no difference in my practical life. Could they exist? Sure. It could.
All these. Yeah. It could answer a lot. I,
I think a lot of these things we've talk about like life on other planets and
aliens, they all are very much explained or here's another good one.
What do these spiritual paths have in common?
We're we train ourselves to find the differences in all of them and theve to
teach and say, don't you understand?
You should be able to walk into a mosque into a church,
into a synagogue and say how nice these people are trying to connect.
Not that we gotta win these people over to our team. Right?
Cause they're all an illusion and they're all gonna hell forever. Right?
Everyone's on a type of path. And I appreciate them trying to surrender.
And the only thing that's gonna get in their way,
cuz people say things like this all the time. Yeah.
It's religion that caused all the problems in this world and it's not religion.
It's the ego that goes with joining a particular church, synagogue asrom,
et cetera, that we have it our way and everybody else their problem.
And we gotta fix it. That's what gets in the way,
because you could say materialism causes lots of problems as well in the world.
So I don't think it's it. The ego's sneaky. It'll sneak into your diet.
It'll sneak into your God. It'll sneak in.
And that's why there's an appreciation instead of a, uh,
instead of a, a condemnation <affirmative> of people that are different than us.